---
layout: post
title:  "Portfolio is very much in shape Week 10"
date:   2017-10-11 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h1>The portfolio has come together very well</h1>
I like the way the portfolio looks, this has been a product of an enormous amount of trial and error work. The process of learning by doing - it is impossible to know the quirks of CSS unless you have experienced them. Web development is extremely complicated - not in a scientific sense - but in a sense of unpredictability. You have to jump through so many hoops just t make it look right.
<br/>
<h1>Learning and breaks.</h1>
I have a problem sitting in the same place for more than an hour. I like to move about, and when I do that - I think about things. It is the immediate and continuous re-organization of thoughts. In my experience this has helped me really retain what I learn. I notice a lot of others in the class do not take as many breaks as me, there are so many differences in how we learn. This is one thats visible enough to stand out.
<br/>
<h1>Modern front end-development - means many things.</h1>
To conclude this learning assignment, here are the two products I worked on. <a href="http://whispering-depths-36965.herokuapp.com">The ML Interface</a> and <a href="http://www.akash.me">My Portfolio</a>. Hope you have fun playing around with them. I realized that modern front end development may mean many things to many people, I cannot call this module really done because, I havent put in teh VueJS stuff I was wanting to do. But we are close. Modern front end development can get as fancy as you wish - it is really amazing because the end product is the same HTML, JS and CSS!

