---
layout: post
title:  "Too much config - week 5"
date:   2017-09-27 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h1> Using Native Android code with React Native</h1>
When I first started off with react native, I was excited about its possibilities and ease of use. But as soon as you try to cross over the boundaries of what is possible using React Native - you run into a huge config wall.
<br/>
Nothing is more frustrating to me than an opaque setup - which is more about your skills as a detective to know what buttons to push - I'd rather than concentrate on making things. Really hate wasting my time and slowing down to address environment issues. It is very exhausting, because it is very taxing on my maker spirit. I am shocked by how little documentation exists for dummies about stringing together an android+react setup.
<br/>
You will find many blogs and articles detailing setting up the usual vanilla react native app and working with it, seems like crossing the boundary towards using native features is laden with problems. This is because both android and react have changed the way they do things, the documentations are obsolete and no one seems to have written an article for a step by step process to getting things done.
<br/>
Lastly, I am exploring using docker containers to circumvent this setup hell. I have been in these situations before, where I overcame a very complicated setup and managed to get many moving parts to work - despite thin and outdated documentation and no company on stackoverflow. But everytime I have done this, I have skipped documenting the things, little fixes and tweaks I had to do in order to get it to work. I am not proud of this.
<br/>
Prof. Howinson, mentioned the XKCD on the <a href="https://xkcd.com/979/"> Wisdom of the Ancients </a>. I can really relate to it at this moment - about a 1000 people (as a conservative estimate) have made android + react apps and the up-to date documentation about this is absolutely non-existent. If I do not address this problem and document it, I think I will become a part of this problem. I think this is also a great way to conclude this learning module by giving back to the community of first time learners.