---
layout: post
title:  "Spray painting with a cell phone: Week 14 - elementary backend and roadblocks"
date:   2017-11-29 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h1>What we have so far</h1>
Currently the system is capable to transmitting accelerometer readings to the server. The server is able to process these readings and determine direction of movement using an elemetary progressive comparison of past accelerometer values. The problem with this approach is that there is a lot of staggering and causes a lag. The calculations also depend on the phone being held a certain way (vertically and perpendicular to the floor) depending on the construction of your phone.<br/>
The calculations do not account for acceleration and depend upon a steady stream of data for progressive left, right, top and bottom decisions and add the movement to the representation of the cursor. So if the movement is too fast, the cursor which represents your cell phone's position in the 2D space does not move at all. A lot more work needs to be done on the math end of the system.
<h2>Cell phone broke</h2>
I have been without a cell phone for a week and a half. It certainly feels weird and have had to depend on email for conversations. This has been a roadblock since because I cannot test my project and develop further. The project depends upon a connected mobile device to work. I will probably be trying to fix the cellphone myself - this is another project in itself.
<h2>I will finish this project</h2>
I am really attached to the project idea since I have been toying with this idea for a very long time. The course provided me an opportunity to explore this idea, I will see it through. It is an interesting model of augmented reality which is really low on computational demand and complexity. The next steps will be to read up on how best to process accelerometer data and interpoate the movement of the center in a 3D space - then project this interpolation on a 2D plane. This is an interesting adventure for me, I have been reasearching the match angle of this project while my cell phone situation gets sorted.