---
layout: post
title:  "The slump - Week 3"
date:   2017-09-18 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h1> The slump - slowing down to make sense of the material.</h1>
Today's day was spent learning. It is the slump one goes through after hello world, when more complicated things need to be done. I have experienced this slump before, once I am over it - once I know where and how things work, I can catch some speed. I wanted to work on this project outside the class - but its too easy being lazy (I have free time, just lacking the drive to work on this). So this class helps me in working on this project at a stretch.
<br/>
React native is easy, you can get things done fats - but like all JS there are right and wrong ways to do things. I spend considerable amounts of time in going through stackoverflow and reading from tutorials about the right way to do things. This project is not a client project - so learning takes preceedence over getting things done. I am optimistic that I will be able to nail the development of this project in time.
<br/>
There are two ways to do projects - follow along tutorials OR a project out of your head. I chose the latter, because I was confident that I can build it in time. I am starting to doubt myself - about coding everything from scratch - without a boilerplate. But I guess that learning is important, I could be much faster with a boilerplate project, but I wont learn as much. Anyway, if going gets tough - it is just a matter of investment of effort rather than some magical ability. I will find time and get it done.