---
layout: post
title:  "Almost dead end - week 4"
date:   2017-09-18 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h1> React native isn't native enough.</h1>
The higher purpose of this project is to make a functioning qualitative logging tool driven by a voice interface. This a moonshot. But I ran into problems today. I mentioned in my earlier posts that I will not be evaluating the features in react-native to see if they are complete enought to satisfy my use case. This exposes my learning experience to what is and is not possible with react native.
<br/>
Today I realized that to have access to the speech APIs on Android (and iOS), I will need to make use of native linked binaries - not a simple react wrapper like I expected. This makes sense since you cannot expect a non-native technology to cover all aspects of a system. I also had an interesting conversation with Prof. Howinson on historical attempts at making cross-platform write-once-run-anywhere software. I was anticipating this, but I am surprised that many other basic features like notifications and polling are not available via. react-native.
<br/>
This is also an exploration of a skill - the skill of being able to work in react-native, which is a really hot skill these days. I am keeping a 'growth-mindset', this roadblock is not going to stop me - yes, it is a challenge and the setup requires wrestling with some out-of-date documentation, stack-overflow detective work and perseverance. I have found only one article that consolidates the setup steps for beginners, even this is a year old (https://medium.com/@deepak.gulati/running-react-native-app-on-the-android-emulator-11bf309443eb).   