---
layout: post
title:  "Learning entry #1 - Capstone"
date:   2018-02-11 23:34:56 +0530
---

<h2>What we are trying to achieve?</h2>
<p>This capstone project will aim at making a small usable contribution of game accessibility world. The envisioned end product is an API or Asset item in Unity that will help improve accessibility of game deployed as WebGl. The product will enable game developers to add TTS (Text to Speech) support to the game objects within Unity3D for deployment as WebGL games.</p>

<p>But before we begin with the development of this API, we wanted to survey the accessibility landscape in gaming. The objectives of this survey is to understand the latest research around gaming accessibility and consolidate the wisdom. Another objective of the survey was to understand the existing initiatives around game accessibility that may be used or expanded upon considering the shared goals. The survey was helpful in re-affirming the direction of the project, the following are important notes from the survey.</p>

<h2>Survey of game accessibility</h2>

<h3>Broad survey of accessibility</h3>
<p><b>An Approach to Mobile Serious Games Accessibility Assessment for People with Hearing Impairments</b> [1] - is a recent survey of gaming accessibility landscape, concentrating on serious games (games from which you learn something). The author tried to formulate a tiered accessibility rating system, which is not particularly exhaustive but looks forward to quantifying game accessibility. The paper was especially useful in knowing the demographics associated with gamers with disabilities.</p>
<p><b>Game Accessibility: a Survey</b> [2] - Is a very exhaustive survey of gaming accessibility. It goes deep into classifying various impairments with possible accessibility solutions. It also provides a good overview of accessibility strategies that can be adopted to make games more accessible.</p>
<p><b>6.813/6.831: User Interface Design and Implementation</b> [3] - An MIT course on User Interface Design and Implementation. The details of the coursework cover the issue of gaming accessibility in one of its lectures. This is a good resource for locating other researchers interesting in accessible gaming space. I used this as a starting point to follow the social network of accessible game researchers.</p>
<p><b>Universally Accessible Games (UA-Games), ICS, Forth</b> [4] - This research lab concentrates on making universally accessible games. The have a few published games that are universally accessible, these are meant to be real-life examples that will help game devs emulate UA-Gaming principles.</p>
<p><b>gameaccessibilityguidelines.com</b> [5] - This website provides a practical low down for gave developers about game accessibility. By far the most simple resource for learning about accessibility does and don'ts.</p>

<h3>Assistive technologies</h3>
<p>A large portion of recent game accessibility research is dedicated to hardware assistive technologies, especially in emerging areas of VR and AR. Since our focus is on improving accessibility for visually impaired users - I explored exiting cutting edge research surrounding this impairment. Most research in this space is dedicated towards developing specialized hardware solutions to help impaired users interact with the game. This includes a huge list of specialized contraptions, improvement on top of conventional IO methods etc. The following resources describe the kind of research in this space.</p>
<p><b>Canetroller</b> [6] - The research is a part of a larger group of projects that try to bring in assistive metaphors from the real world into VR. The canetroller provides haptic feedback much like a real world walking cane used by visually impaired users.</p>
<p><b>Able Gamers Charity</b> [7] - This charity works to provide customized game controllers for games who cannot use conventional out of the box assistive technologies. Their work caters to a very niche demand for assistive technologies that are not met by conventional assistive technologies which are bundled into platforms (for example TTS on MacOS).</p>

<h3>Web accessibility</h3>
<p>This is the most important area for the project as it deals with accessibility for the web platform. WebGl games are not compatible with screen-readers because they use the HTML Canvas element which is essentially a screen made up of pixels and not ASCII/HyperText text. Currently these are <b>NO</b> existing technologies that support the channeling of textual content from WebGL space out to the plain HTML that is accessible by the screen reader.</p>
<p><b>Unity Accessibility Plugin (UAP)</b> [8] - UAP is the closest available product to what we envision as the accessibility solution for WebGL based games developed in Unity. However, it is <b>NOT</b> made to work for WebGL distributed games and uses an internal system to interface with the native TTS system (Only available in native deployments) to create a voice over. This means that the data is not available as simple text - thus cannot be routed to specialized interfaces like braille systems, haptic systems or simple speech systems. I plan to remedy this by building an opensource plugin that simply routes textual data to the parent HTML container - which can be processed as needed by the accessibility systems.</p>

<h2>Proof of concept development</h2>
<p>-The first sprint will be to develop a proof of concept, to demonstrate the viability of this project. The pilot test will aim to send textual data to the parent HTML container and be successfully read by the narration software. This requires knowledge about the nature of DOM and accessibility protocols like  WAI-ARIA tags, WEB-AIM etc.</p>

<h2>Upcoming work items</h2>
<ul>
<li>-Tunnel textual gata from WebGL application to the outer HTML</li>
<li>-WebGL DOM and narration software interaction</li>
<li>-Update textual data from within the WebGL world</li>
<li>-Test interaction of text in HTML with surrounding DOM tree.</li>
<li>-Understand l10 localization pitfalls.</li>
<li>-Inform the future scope of the project</li>
</ul>

<h2>References</h2>
<p>[1] An Approach to Mobile Serious Games Accessibility Assessment for People with Hearing Impairments</p>
Jaramillo-Alcázar A., Luján-Mora S. (2018) An Approach to Mobile Serious Games Accessibility Assessment for People with Hearing Impairments. In: Rocha Á., Guarda T. (eds) Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Technology & Systems (ICITS 2018). ICITS 2018. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, vol 721. Springer, Cham
<p>[2] Folmer, E., Harris, F.C., & Yuan, B. (2010). Game accessibility: a survey. Universal Access in the Information Society, 10, 81-100.</p>
<p>[3] 6.813/6.831: User Interface Design & Implementation, Spring 2018, CSAIL MIT. https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.831/archive/2008/lectures/L24a-video-game-accessibility/L24a-video-game-accessibility.html</p>
<p>[4] FORTH ICS, Greece. <a href="http://www.ics.forth.gr/hci/ua-games/index_main.php?l=e&c=560">http://www.ics.forth.gr/hci/ua-games/index_main.php?l=e&c=560</a></p>
<p>[5] Game Accessibility Guidelines, <a href="http://gameaccessibilityguidelines.com/">http://gameaccessibilityguidelines.com/.</a></p>
<p>[6] Zhao, Y., Bennett, C. L., Benko, H., Cutrell, E., Holz, C., Morris, M. R., & Sinclair, M. (2018). Enabling People with Visual Impairments to Navigate Virtual Reality with a Haptic and Auditory Cane Simulation.</p>
<p>[7] Able Gamers Charity, AbleGamers Foundation. <a href="http://www.ablegamers.org/">http://www.ablegamers.org/</a></p>
<p>[8] Unity Accessibility Plugin (UAP). <a href="https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/gui/ui-accessibility-plugin-uap-87935">https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/gui/ui-accessibility-plugin-uap-87935</a></p>


